# Exam 3 for ISC_5935 Data Science meets Health Sciences, Spring 2023

The objective of this exam is to evaluate our current learning in sequence models. 

## Question 1 Basic RNN (10 Pts)
What will be the outputs generated by a single RNN which weights are initialized with
$w_{input} = 0.5, w_{hidden} = -0.3, b_{input} = -0.2, b_{weight} = 0.8$ when sending an input vector of $5$ **two** times. 

Consider the hidden state of the RNN is initialized with 0.

Please provide each of the **two** outputs generated by the RNN (4 decimal places) and explain
how you got to that answer.


## Question 2 Sequence models (15 Pts)
Using a similar version of the toy sequence model that we analyzed in class,
(`Hello_Squence_Model.py` or [Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1005mWtFkBVJwZiTbXFCAueSjyzixnQi9?usp=sharing) )

1. What is the size of the hidden state?
2. What is the size of the embedding?
3. What is the predicted character of the trained model after sending the sequence `Final e`?
4. What is the predicted character of the trained model after sending the sequence `"Final exam, you got this! RNNs are powe`?
5. Why are the two last characters being predicted are different if the input character is the same (i.e. `e`)? Can you prove it?

## Question 3 Embeddings (15 Pts)
From the `Embeddings.py` or [this Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1qycQ4L-pMdyOUDYpx51EMuhapzDjhBge?usp=sharing) 
please answer the following questions:

1. What is the size of the example vocabulary of words?
2. What is the size of the embedding vector?
3. (2 decimal places) What is the initial values of the embedding for the word `study` and `party`?
4. (2 decimal places) What is the final values of the embedding for the word `study` and `party` (after training the embedding layer)?
5. What is *distance* between the embedding of the words `study` and `party` after training the embedding layer? (2 decimal places)
6. (Extra 2 Pts) What is the word that relates to `pass` which has a similar relationship to that between `study` and `party`? Please provide
the code that shows how you came up with this answer.

